README.md, before:

# cserver
Another Minecraft Classic server in C. Not well written, but it may be useful for someone. Use this software carefully! The server MAY have many security holes.

The goal of this project: create a stable, customizable and future-rich multiplatform Minecraft Classic server with a minimal dependencies count.

## Features
* Classic Protocol Extension
* Multiplatform (Windows/Linux)
* Plugins support
* Web client support ([More info](https://www.classicube.net/api/docs/server))
* Lua scripting (Implemented in the [Lua plugin](https://github.com/igor725/cs-lua))
* RCON server (Implemented in the [Base plugin](https://github.com/igor725/cs-base))
* Own world generator (Written by [scaled](https://github.com/scaledteam) for [LuaClassic](https://github.com/igor725/LuaClassic), later ported to C by me)
* Heartbeat API (ClassiCube heartbeat implemented in the [Base plugin](https://github.com/igor725/cs-base))
* Easy configurable

## Download
If you don't want to mess with compilers, you can always download latest prebuilt binaries [here](https://github.com/igor725/cserver/actions/workflows/build.yml).

Single command builder: `curl -sL https://igvx.ru/singlecommand | bash` (server + base + lua)

## Dependencies

### On Linux
1. zlib
2. pthread
3. libcurl, libcrypto (will be loaded on demand)
4. libreadline (will be loaded if available)

### On Windows
1. zlib (will be automatically cloned and compiled during the building process)
2. Several std libs (such as Kernel32, DbgHelp, WS2_32)
3. WinInet, Advapi32 (will be loaded on demand)

## Building

### On Linux
``./build [args ...]``

NOTE: This script uses gcc, but you can change it to another compiler by setting CC environment variable (``CC=clang ./build [args ...]``).

### On Windows
``.\build.bat [args ...]``

NOTE: This script must be runned in the Visual Studio Developer Command Prompt.

### Build script arguments
* ``cls`` - Clear console window before compilation
* ``pb`` - Build a plugin (next argument must be a plugin name, without the "cs-" prefix)
* ``install`` - Copy plugin binary to the ``plugins`` directory after compilation (Can be used only with ``pb``)
* ``upd`` - Update local server (or plugin if ``pb`` passed AFTER ``upd``) repository before building
* ``dbg`` - Build with debug symbols
* ``wall`` - Enable all possible warnings
* ``wx`` - Treat warnings as errors
* ``w0`` - Disable all warnings
* ``od`` - Disable compiler optimizations
* ``san`` - Add LLVM sanitizers
* ``run`` - Start the server after compilation
* ``runsame`` - Start the server after compilation in the same console window (Windows only)
* ``noprompt`` - Suppress zlib download prompt message (Windows only)

### Example
* ``./build`` - Build the server release binary
* ``./build dbg wall upd`` - Pull latest changes from this repository, then build the server with all warnings and debug symbols
* ``./build dbg wall pb base install`` - Build the base plugin with all warnings and debug symbols, then copy binary to the plugins directory
* ``./build dbg wall upd pb base install`` - Pull latest changes from cs-base repository, then build the base plugin and copy binary to the plugins directory

## Notes
* It is strongly recommended to recompile **all plugins** every time you update the server, because the final version of API not yet been formed. It means your server may not work properly.
* My main OS is Windows 10, this means the Linux thing are not well tested.
* By default the server doesn't have any useful chat commands, build the [cs-base](https://github.com/igor725/cs-base) plugin for an expanded command set.
* Here is the [example plugin](https://github.com/igor725/cs-test) for this server software.
* Your directory should have the following structure in order to compile plugins:
```
	[root_folder]/cserver - Main server repository
	[root_folder]/cs-lua - Lua scripting plugin
	[root_folder]/cs-base - Base server functionality
	[root_folder]/cs-survival - Survival plugin
	[root_folder]/cs-test - Test plugin
```

Commit message:

Some changes + World_SetSeed, World_GetSeed added * Minor code cleanup performed

README.md, after:

# cserver
Another Minecraft Classic server in C. Not well written, but it may be useful for someone. Use this software carefully! The server MAY have many security holes.

The goal of this project: create a stable, customizable and future-rich multiplatform Minecraft Classic server with a minimal dependencies count.

## Features
* Classic Protocol Extension
* Multiplatform (Windows/Linux)
* Plugins support
* Web client support ([More info](https://www.classicube.net/api/docs/server))
* Lua scripting (Implemented in the [Lua plugin](https://github.com/igor725/cs-lua))
* RCON server (Implemented in the [Base plugin](https://github.com/igor725/cs-base))
* Own world generator (Written by [scaled](https://github.com/scaledteam) for [LuaClassic](https://github.com/igor725/LuaClassic), later ported to C by me)
* Heartbeat API (ClassiCube heartbeat implemented in the [Base plugin](https://github.com/igor725/cs-base))
* Easy configurable

## Download
If you don't want to mess with compilers, you can always download latest prebuilt binaries [here](https://github.com/igor725/cserver/actions/workflows/build.yml).

Single command builder: `curl -sL https://igvx.ru/singlecommand | bash` (server + base + lua)

## Dependencies

### On Linux
1. zlib
2. pthread
3. libcurl, libcrypto (will be loaded on demand)
4. libreadline (will be loaded if available)

### On Windows
1. zlib (will be automatically cloned and compiled during the building process)
2. Several std libs (such as Kernel32, DbgHelp, WS2_32)
3. WinInet, Advapi32 (will be loaded on demand)

NOTE: Some libraries (such as libcurl, libcrypto) are multiplatform. You can use them both on Windows and Linux.

### Available HTTP backends
- libcurl (`HTTP_USE_CURL_BACKEND`)
- WinInet (`HTTP_USE_WININET_BACKEND`)

### Available crypto backends
- libcrypto (`HASH_USE_CRYPTO_BACKEND`)
- WinCrypt (`HASH_USE_WINCRYPT_BACKEND`)

Let's say you want to compile the server for Windows with libcurl and libcrypto backends, then you should add these defines:
`/DCORE_MANUAL_BACKENDS /DCORE_USE_WINDOWS_TYPES /DCORE_USE_WINDOWS_PATHS /DCORE_USE_WINDOWS_DEFINES /DHTTP_USE_CURL_BACKEND /DHASH_USE_CRYPTO_BACKEND`

It can be done by creating a file called `vars.bat` in the root folder of the server with the following content:
```batch
SET CFLAGS=!CFLAGS! /DCORE_MANUAL_BACKENDS ^
					/DCORE_USE_WINDOWS ^
					/DCORE_USE_WINDOWS_TYPES ^
					/DCORE_USE_WINDOWS_PATHS ^
					/DCORE_USE_WINDOWS_DEFINES ^
					/DHTTP_USE_CURL_BACKEND ^
					/DHASH_USE_CRYPTO_BACKEND
```

## Building

### On Linux
``./build [args ...]``

NOTE: This script uses gcc, but you can change it to another compiler by setting CC environment variable (``CC=clang ./build [args ...]``).

### On Windows
``.\build.bat [args ...]``

NOTE: This script must be runned in the Visual Studio Developer Command Prompt.

### Build script arguments
* ``cls`` - Clear console window before compilation
* ``pb`` - Build a plugin (next argument must be a plugin name, without the "cs-" prefix)
* ``install`` - Copy plugin binary to the ``plugins`` directory after compilation (Can be used only with ``pb``)
* ``upd`` - Update local server (or plugin if ``pb`` passed AFTER ``upd``) repository before building
* ``dbg`` - Build with debug symbols
* ``wall`` - Enable all possible warnings
* ``wx`` - Treat warnings as errors
* ``w0`` - Disable all warnings
* ``od`` - Disable compiler optimizations
* ``san`` - Add LLVM sanitizers
* ``run`` - Start the server after compilation
* ``runsame`` - Start the server after compilation in the same console window (Windows only)
* ``noprompt`` - Suppress zlib download prompt message (Windows only)

### Example
* ``./build`` - Build the server release binary
* ``./build dbg wall upd`` - Pull latest changes from this repository, then build the server with all warnings and debug symbols
* ``./build dbg wall pb base install`` - Build the base plugin with all warnings and debug symbols, then copy binary to the plugins directory
* ``./build dbg wall upd pb base install`` - Pull latest changes from cs-base repository, then build the base plugin and copy binary to the plugins directory

## Notes
* It is strongly recommended to recompile **all plugins** every time you update the server, because the final version of API not yet been formed. It means your server may not work properly.
* My main OS is Windows 10, this means the Linux thing are not well tested.
* By default the server doesn't have any useful chat commands, build the [cs-base](https://github.com/igor725/cs-base) plugin for an expanded command set.
* Here is the [example plugin](https://github.com/igor725/cs-test) for this server software.
* Your directory should have the following structure in order to compile plugins:
```
	[root_folder]/cserver - Main server repository
	[root_folder]/cs-lua - Lua scripting plugin
	[root_folder]/cs-base - Base server functionality
	[root_folder]/cs-survival - Survival plugin
	[root_folder]/cs-test - Test plugin
```
